Feat: Add Serverless section (#128)
nodeshift/nodejs-reference-architecture: docs/development/serverless.md

# Serverless

Serverless is a powerful and popular paradigm where you don’t have to worry about managing and maintaining your application infrastructure. In the serverless context, a function is a single-purpose piece of code created by the developer but run and monitored by the managed infrastructure. A serverless function’s value is its simplicity and swiftness, which can entice even those who don’t consider themselves developers.

## Recommended Components

N/A

## Guidance

> While the team doesn't have to much experience in the serverless realm at the moment, there is still some guidance that can be recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far the team does not have production experience deploying applications that include serverless components. However, the team includes members who help to maintain components of the RH serverless offering. Based on that experience we have some guidance.
```

### Functions

One of the main recommendations that we can give related to Functions and Serverless in general, is to keep things as stateless as possible.  When a request comes in, the function will scale up and become available for a set period of time before it scales back down and the current context is destroyed.

### Serverless Platforms

#### Openshift Serverless

OpenShift Serverless is based on the open source Knative project, which provides portability and consistency across hybrid and multi-cloud environments by enabling an enterprise-grade serverless platform.

Developers on OpenShift Serverless can use the provided Kubernetes native APIs, as well as familiar languages and frameworks, to deploy applications and container workloads.

OpenShift Serverless on OpenShift Container Platform enables stateless serverless workloads to all run on a single multi-cloud container platform with automated operations. Developers can use a single platform for hosting their microservices, legacy, and serverless applications.

> 

Reviewer 2: #### Apache OpenWhisk

TODO

#### Akamai EdgeWorkers

TODO

#### Cloudflare Workers

TODO

#### Fastly Compute@Edge

TODO

# Serverless

> Serverless is a powerful and popular model where you don’t have to worry about managing and maintaining your application infrastructure. There are two main paradigms when it comes to Serverless.  The first is the operations paradigm which is responsible for the orchestration of containers to zero.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Serverless is a powerful and popular development model where you don’t have to worry about managing and maintaining your application infrastructure. There are two main paradigms when it comes to Serverless.  The first is the operations paradigm which is responsible for the orchestration of containers, scaling them up from and down to zero running instances.
```

> The second paradigm is functions.  In the serverless context, a function is a single-purpose piece of code created by the developer but run and monitored by the managed infrastructure. A serverless function’s value is its simplicity and swiftness, which can entice even those who don’t consider themselves developers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The second paradigm is the functions programming model.  In the serverless context, a function is a single-purpose piece of code created by the developer but run and monitored by the managed infrastructure. A serverless function’s value is its simplicity and swiftness, which can entice even those who don’t consider themselves developers.
```
There are a lot of other benefits as well (at least with Knative Functions), such as language packs, which allow enterprises to create custom function templates for their developers, expanding runtime options and locking in approved dependencies. Probably too much to get into in this short intro, but something to think about for a future revision.

## Recommended Components

N/A

## Guidance

While the team doesn't have to much experience in the serverless realm at the moment, there is still some guidance that can be recommended.

### Functions

One of the main recommendations that we can give related to Functions and Serverless in general, is to keep things as stateless as possible.  When a request comes in, the function will scale up and become available for a set period of time before it scales back down and the current context is destroyed.

Node.js is one of the top recommended languages for Functions due to Node's small memory foot print, quick startup time and asynchronus nature.

#### Challenges

> There are some challenges when deciding to use functions.  The first is that there is no standard.  The way a function needs to be created and what data is available in the function signature, is based on the vendor that the function is being created for.  While not a standard for how functions should be created, the [CloudEvents specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec) is trying to standardize the payload that is sent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are some challenges when deciding to use functions.  The first is that there is no standard.  How a function should be created and what data and types are available in the function signature, is based on the vendor that the function is being created for.  While not a standard for how functions should be created, the [CloudEvents specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec) standardizes on many platforms, such as Knative Serverless and Google Cloud Functions, the payload that is sent.
```

> Second is the local development and remote debugging experience.  This can be challenging for a couple of reasons.  First, when developing locally, if the function needs to interact with other remote services, this can be challenging to setup.  Second, once the function is running on its respective serverless platform, debugging the remote function can be challening, since it is no small feat to connect a debugger to a remote service.

Reviewer 3: I feel that here, it might be worth mentioning that unit tests are the foundation of functions. Typically, good programming practice is that there should be no side effects from a function call (in any platform/runtime not just functions). If that's the case, then a function should be fully testable for developers using unit tests. This, of course, leaves open integration testing and end to end testing - both of which are still important. But I'm not sure that the challenges in these scenarios are specific to functions. Consider any REST service that runs in a cluster, potentially calling other services - the integration/e2e testing challenges are the same.

There are tools that exist to help with this experience, such as the [faas-js-runtime](https://www.npmjs.com/package/faas-js-runtime), but again, this is based on a specific vendor.

### Serverless Platforms

#### Openshift Serverless

OpenShift Serverless is based on the open source Knative project, which provides portability and consistency across hybrid and multi-cloud environments by enabling an enterprise-grade serverless platform.

Developers on OpenShift Serverless can use the provided Kubernetes native APIs, as well as familiar languages and frameworks, to deploy applications and container workloads.

OpenShift Serverless on OpenShift Container Platform enables stateless serverless workloads to all run on a single multi-cloud container platform with automated operations. Developers can use a single platform for hosting their microservices, legacy, and serverless applications.

<!--
#### Apache OpenWhisk

TODO

#### AWS Lambda

TODO

#### Akamai EdgeWorkers

TODO

#### Cloudflare Workers

TODO

#### Fastly Compute@Edge

TODO

-->

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer 3: I'm worried that most of these guides/articles are going to be out of date with the current CLI user experience. Will there be any review of these suggested readings before publishing?

Author: i reviewed them not to long ago,  and the commands that are used in those articles, didn't look like they had changed much
